---
title: "Generative AI and the Future of Software Engineering"
excerpt: "A disccusion on the role generative AI is going to play in the near future in software engineering."
last_modified_at: 2022-01-16T17:13:00T-05:00
categories:
  - ai
  - future
  - software engineering
  - generative ai
tags: 
  - ai
  - software engineering
  - chatgpt
  - github copilot
  - generative ai
  - future
image: "/images/generative-ai-and-software-engineering/thumbnail.png"
---

##### Introduction
The field of software engineering is constantly evolving, with new tools and languages emerging on a regular basis. Keeping up with these changes can be a daunting task for software engineers, as it requires a significant investment of time and effort to learn new technologies. A change in the landscape is being brought about by the growth of synthetic intelligence technologies, which make it possible for engineers to learn new technologies quickly and keep up with the rapid pace of change.

##### NP-Complete Problem
The process of building software is NP-complete, which means that writing code is computationally complex, whereas functionally verifying correctness is "easy." This makes learning new tools and lanugages difficult. What if engineers didn't need to write code and could instead verify the correctness?

##### Quick Learning of New Technologies
Generative AI technologies make it possible for engineers to quickly learn new technologies. This is because the tools can automatically generate code based on a set of inputs/outputs, and engineers can then verify the code generated by the AI for correctness. Instead of getting caught up in the complexities of the language syntax, engineers are able to focus on understanding the principles and functionality of the new technology.

For example, an engineer who wants to learn a new programming language like Rust, can use ChatGPT to generate Rust code snippets based on the inputs given by the engineer. This will allow the engineer to quickly understand how to write code in Rust and get familiar with the idioms, libraries and patterns. Additionally, Github Copilot can assist the engineer by suggesting code snippets, completing code for the developer, and even refactoring code to improve its quality. This will make learning a new language much more efficient and less frustrating.
The ability to quickly learn new technologies is a major advantage for software engineers, as it allows them to keep up with the rapid pace of technological change and to create more powerful and capable software. This is particularly beneficial for engineers who are working on large-scale projects, as it allows them to build more robust and efficient software.

##### Less Coding, More Engineering
Traditionally, engineers were responsible for both coding and engineering aspects of software development. With the advent of generative AI tools, engineers can now rely on these tools to automatically generate code based on a set of inputs/outputs. This allows engineers to focus on understanding system, testing and verification, freeing up valuable time to create more complex and feature-rich software.

##### New Skillset for Entry-Level Engineers
The shift towards more engineering and less coding is also changing the skillset required for entry-level engineers. Instead of spending significant time learning algorithms and coding techniques, entry-level engineers will need to focus on learning how to engineer systems, including understanding the principles of system design, testing and verification of software, and understanding how to use generative AI tools.

##### Challenges and Solution
The shift towards more engineering and less coding can be challenging for entry-level and mid-level engineers who have historically focused on coding and have little understanding of system engineering. This requires additional training and education, as well as mentorship and support from companies and educators.

##### Final Thoughts
Generative AI technologies are revolutionizing the field of software engineering by allowing engineers to quickly learn new technologies and focus more on the engineering aspects of software development. These tools are not only making the software development process faster and more efficient, but they are also enabling engineers to create more powerful and capable software. Additionally, the shift towards more engineering and less coding is leading to a change in the skillset required for the profession, with a focus on understanding the principles of system design, testing and verification of software, and understanding how to use generative AI tools. As the field of software engineering continues to evolve, generative AI is going to play a larger and more important role.